# License Overview

## Goals at AuthCompanion

- The value proposition for AuthCompanion is to bring user authentication
  on-prem and migrated away from curret SaaS vendors; while making it as simple
  as possible to both use and deploy. Offering AuthC as a SaaS ruins AuthC's
  intended value as an on-prem server. Your users are your most important asset,
  why would you have someone else run it?
- Many open source communities have been eroded and devastated by VC funded
  organizations who work to capture the majority of value which was intended for
  the origial community. AuthCompanion is starting its life as propriety
  software with its
  ["source available"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source-available_software#:~:text=Source%2Davailable%20software%20is%20software,to%20be%20called%20open%2Dsource.)
  as an experiment to build a long term and sustainable environment for the
  server development.

---

AuthCompanion is licensed under the
[Big Time Public License](https://bigtimelicense.com/versions/2.0.1) which lets
you use and share this software for noncommercial purposes and in small business
for free, while also guaranteeing that paid licenses for larger businesses will
be available on fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms.

For more information check out
[https://writing.kemitchell.com/2021/06/15/Big-Time-1.0.0.html](https://writing.kemitchell.com/2021/06/15/Big-Time-1.0.0.html)

---

# Big Time Public License

Version 2.0.0

<https://bigtimelicense.com/versions/2.0.0>

## Purpose

These terms let you use and share this software for noncommercial purposes and
in small business for free, while also guaranteeing that paid licenses for big
businesses will be available on fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms.

## Acceptance

In order to get any license under these terms, you must agree to them as both
strict obligations and conditions to all your licenses.

## Noncommercial Purposes

You may use the software for any noncommercial purpose.

## Personal Uses

Personal use for research, experiment, and testing for the benefit of public
knowledge, personal study, private entertainment, hobby projects, amateur
pursuits, or religious observance, without any anticipated commercial
application, count as use for noncommercial purposes.

## Noncommercial Organizations

Use by any charitable organization, educational institution, public research
organization, public safety or health organization, environmental protection
organization, or government institution counts as use for noncommercial
purposes, regardless of the source of funding or obligations resulting from the
funding.

## Small Business

You may use the software for the benefit of your company if it meets all these
criteria:

1. had fewer than 20 total individuals working as employees and independent
   contractors at all times during the last tax year

2. earned less than 1,000,000 USD (2019) total revenue in the last tax year

3. received less than 1,000,000 USD (2019) total debt, equity, and other
   investment in the last five tax years, counting investment in predecessor
   companies that reorganized into, merged with, or spun out your company

Adjust these dollar figures for inflation according to the United States Bureau
of Labor Statistics' consumer price index for all urban consumers, United States
city average, for all items, not seasonally adjusted, with 1982â€“1984=100
reference base.

## Big Business

You may use the software for the benefit of your company:

1. for 128 days after your company stops qualifying under
   [Small Business](#small-business)

2. indefinitely, if the licensor or their legal successor does not offer fair,
   reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms for a commercial license for the
   software within 32 days of [written request](#how-to-request) and negotiate
   in good faith to conclude a deal

## How to Request

If this software includes an address for the licensor or an agent of the
licensor in a standard place, such as in documentation, software package
metadata, or an "about" page or screen, try to request a fair commercial license
at that address. If this package includes both online and offline addresses, try
online before offline. If you can't deliver a request that way, or this software
doesn't include any addressees, spend one hour online researching an address,
recording all your searches and inquiries as you go, and try any addresses that
you find. If you can't find any addresses, or if those addresses also fail, that
counts as failure to offer a fair commercial license by the licensor under
[Big Business](#big-business).

## Fair, Reasonable, and Nondiscriminatory Terms

Fair, reasonable, and nondiscriminatory terms may license the software
perpetually or for a term, and may or may not cover new versions of the
software. If the licensor advertises license terms and a pricing structure for
generally available commercial licenses, the licensor proposes license terms and
a price as advertised, and a customer not affiliated with the licensor has
bought a commercial commercial license for the software on substantially
equivalent terms in the past year, the proposal is fair, reasonable, and
nondiscriminatory.

## Copyright License

The licensor grants you a copyright license to do everything with the software
that would otherwise infringe the licensor's copyright in it for any purpose
allowed by these terms.

## Notices

You must ensure that anyone who gets a copy of any part of the software from you
also gets a copy of these terms or the URL for them above, as well as copies of
any plain-text lines beginning with `Required Notice:` that the licensor
provided with the software. For example:

> Required Notice: Copyright Yoyodyne, Inc. (http://example.com)

## Patent License

The licensor grants you a patent license for the software that covers patent
claims the licensor can license, or becomes able to license, that you would
infringe by using the software.

## Fair Use

You may have "fair use" rights for the software under the law. These terms do
not limit them.

## No Other Rights

These terms do not allow you to sublicense or transfer any of your licenses to
anyone else, or prevent the licensor from granting licenses to anyone else.
These terms do not imply any other licenses.

## Patent Defense

If you make any written claim that the software infringes or contributes to
infringement of any patent, your patent license for the software granted under
these terms ends immediately. If your company makes such a claim, your patent
license ends immediately for work on behalf of your company.

## Violations

The first time you are notified in writing that you have violated any of these
terms, or done anything with the software not covered by your licenses, your
licenses can nonetheless continue if you come into full compliance with these
terms, and take practical steps to correct past violations, within 32 days of
receiving notice. Otherwise, all your licenses end immediately.

## No Liability

_**As far as the law allows, the software comes as is, without any warranty or
condition, and the licensor will not be liable to you for any damages arising
out of these terms or the use or nature of the software, under any kind of legal
claim.**_

## Definitions

The **licensor** is the individual or entity offering these terms, and the
**software** is the software the licensor makes available under these terms.

**You** refers to the individual or entity agreeing to these terms.

**Your company** is any legal entity, sole proprietorship, or other kind of
organization that you work for, plus all organizations that have control over,
are under the control of, or are under common control with that organization.
**Control** means ownership of substantially all the assets of an entity, or the
power to direct its management and policies by vote, contract, or otherwise.
Control can be direct or indirect.

**Your licenses** are all the licenses granted to you for the software under
these terms.

**Use** means anything you do with the software requiring one of your licenses.
